Save to temporary array and efficient spatial/spectral chunking (#629)
radio-astro-tools/spectral-cube: docs/dask.rst

as spectrally smoothing the cube, then spatially smoothing it, it can be more efficient to store intermediate
results to disk. All methods that return a cube can therefore take the ``save_to_tmp_dir`` option which can
be set to `True` to compute the result of the operation immediately, save it to a temporary directory, and
re-read it immediately from disk (for users interested in how the data is stored, it is stored as a
`zarr <https://zarr.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_ dataset)::

    >>> cube_new = cube.sigma_clip_spectrally(3, save_to_tmp_dir=True)  # doctest: +IGNORE_OUTPUT
    [########################################] | 100% Completed |  0.1s
    >>> cube_new
    DaskSpectralCube with shape=(7, 4, 3) and unit=Jy / beam:
     n_x:      3  type_x: RA---ARC  unit_x: deg    range:    52.231466 deg:   52.231544 deg
     n_y:      4  type_y: DEC--ARC  unit_y: deg    range:    31.243639 deg:   31.243739 deg
     n_s:      7  type_s: VRAD      unit_s: m / s  range:    14322.821 m / s:   14944.909 m / s

Note that this requires the `zarr`_ and `fsspec <https://pypi.org/project/fsspec/>`_ packages to be

> installed.

Reviewer: We need to add something about this to the `installation` section

Author: Done

    >>> cube_dask.use_dask_scheduler('threads', num_workers=4)  # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> %time cube_dask.sigma_clip_spectrally(1, save_to_tmp_dir=True)  # doctest: +SKIP
    ...
    CPU times: user 1min 9s, sys: 1.44 s, total: 1min 11s
    Wall time: 18.5 s

In this case, the wall time is 3x faster (and 21x faster than the regular
spectral cube class without dask).

Applying custom functions to cubes
----------------------------------

Like the :class:`~spectral_cube.SpectralCube` class, the
:class:`~spectral_cube.DaskSpectralCube` and
:class:`~spectral_cube.DaskVaryingResolutionSpectralCube` classes have methods for applying custom
functions to all the spectra or all the spatial images in a cube:
:meth:`~spectral_cube.DaskSpectralCube.apply_function_parallel_spectral` and
:meth:`~spectral_cube.DaskSpectralCube.apply_function_parallel_spatial`. By default, these methods
take functions that apply to individual spectra or images, but this can be quite slow for large
spectral cubes. If possible, you should consider supplying a function that can accept 3-d cubes
and operate on all spectra or image slices in a vectorized way.

> To demonstrate this, we will read in a large CASA dataset with 623 channels and 768x768 pixels in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To demonstrate this, we will read in a mid-sized CASA dataset with 623 channels and 768x768 pixels in
```

the image plane::

    >>> large = SpectralCube.read('large_spectral_cube.image', format='casa_image', use_dask=True)  # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> large  # doctest: +SKIP
    DaskVaryingResolutionSpectralCube with shape=(623, 768, 768) and unit=Jy / beam:
    n_x:    768  type_x: RA---SIN  unit_x: deg    range:   290.899389 deg:  290.932404 deg
    n_y:    768  type_y: DEC--SIN  unit_y: deg    range:    14.501466 deg:   14.533425 deg
    n_s:    623  type_s: FREQ      unit_s: Hz     range: 216201517973.483 Hz:216277445708.200 Hz

As an example, we will apply sigma clipping to all spectra in the cube. Note that there is a method
to do this (:meth:`~spectral_cube.DaskSpectralCube.sigma_clip_spectrally`) but for the purposes of

> demonstration, we will set up the function ourselves and apply it with

Reviewer: This is great, we should definitely have examples like this!

:meth:`~spectral_cube.DaskSpectralCube.apply_function_parallel_spectral`. We will use the
:func:`~astropy.stats.sigma_clip` function from astropy::

    >>> from astropy.stats import sigma_clip

By default, this function returns masked arrays, but to apply this to our
spectral cube, we need it to return a plain Numpy array with NaNs for the masked

> values. In addition, the original function tends to return warnings which we want to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
values. In addition, the original function tends to return warnings we want to
```

silence, so we can do this here too::

    >>> import warnings
    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> def sigma_clip_with_nan(*args, **kwargs):
    ...     with warnings.catch_warnings():
    ...         warnings.simplefilter('ignore')
    ...         return sigma_clip(*args, axis=0, **kwargs).filled(np.nan)

The ``axis=0`` is so that if the function is passed a cube, it will still work properly.

Let's now call :meth:`~spectral_cube.DaskSpectralCube.apply_function_parallel_spectral`, including the
``save_to_tmp_dir`` option mentioned previously to force the calculation and the storage of the result
to disk::

    >>> clipped_cube = large.apply_function_parallel_spectral(sigma_clip_with_nan, sigma=3,
    ...                                                       save_to_tmp_dir=True)  # doctest: +SKIP
    [########################################] | 100% Completed |  1min 42.3s

The ``sigma`` argument is passed to the ``sigma_clip_with_nan`` function. We now call this
again but specifying that the ``sigma_clip_with_nan`` function can also take cubes, using

> the ``accepts_chunks=True`` option::

Reviewer: is this true?  I thought `sigma_clip` would change behavior if not specifically run on a spectrum?  Have you verified the results are identical?

Author: The ``axis=0`` in the wrapped function is what makes it work ok

Author: I've tried to clarify this

    >>> cube.max()  # doctest: +IGNORE_OUTPUT
    [########################################] | 100% Completed |  0.1s
    <Quantity 0.01936739 Jy / beam>

Performance benefits of using dask spectral cube classes

Saving intermediate results to disk
-----------------------------------

When calling methods such as for example :meth:`~spectral_cube.DaskSpectralCube.convolve_to` or any other
methods that return a cube, the result is not immediately calculated - instead, the result is only computed
when data is accessed directly (for example via `~spectral_cube.DaskSpectralCube.filled_data`), or when
writing the cube to disk, for example as a FITS file. However, when doing several operations in a row, such
as spectrally smoothing the cube, then spatially smoothing it, it can be more efficient to store intermediate

> results to disk. All methods that return a cube can therefore take the ``save_to_tmp_dir`` option which can

Author: I'll add that in a follow-up PR.

> results to disk. All methods that return a cube can therefore take the ``save_to_tmp_dir`` option which can

Author: See #632

be set to `True` to compute the result of the operation immediately, save it to a temporary directory, and

> re-read it immediately from disk (for users interested in how the data is stored, it is stored as a

Author: I think this might be system-dependent, I'm basically just using the Python ``tempfile`` module so I assume the system cleans this up from time to time (e.g. at reboot). I'll open an issue so that we can investigate in detail since these files will be big.

> re-read it immediately from disk (for users interested in how the data is stored, it is stored as a

Author: See https://github.com/radio-astro-tools/spectral-cube/issues/633
